=======
Outputs
=======

EnergyPATHWAYS provides detailed outputs in the form of several comma-separated value (.csv) files. Here we describe the various files and their contents.

General Terminology
===================

The following terms appear throughout the energyPATHWAYS output files.

Census division
  Geographic definitions consistent with the EIA’s National Energy Modeling System (NEMS). Map available here: https://www2.census.gov/geo/pdfs/maps-data/maps/reference/us_regdiv.pdf

Sector
  Demand sectors that include residential, commercial, transportation, and productive (industrial and agricultural sectors excluding those that are part of the energy supply chain, Ex. refining)

Subsector
  More detailed units of demand analysis. Associated with unique energy service demands. Ex. residential water heating.

Supply node
  Upstream energy supply sectors associated with the production, conversion, delivery, or storage of energy.

Final Energy
  Energy type consumed to satisfy energy service demand. Differentiated from upstream energy use that is consumed to produce final energy.

Scenario
  Scenario name (Mixed, High CCS, etc.)

Timestamp
  Time of scenario run

Emissions – ``emissions.csv``
=============================

Full cross-section of all energy CO2 emissions in the US economy. Emissions are able to be represented by either source (i.e. coal power plants) or final energy (i.e. electricity) or both simultaneously.

Index Descriptions
------------------

Census division consumed
  Census Division where produced emissions are allocated as a function of energy demand. Ex. Electricity generated in coal plants in the Mountain Census division may be attributed to the Pacific Census division if that electricity is consumed there.

Export/domestic
  Emissions associated with energy that is produced for consumption elsewhere (Export) or emissions associated with energy that is produced and consumed in the US.

GHG
  Greenhouse gas identifier.

Supply/demand
  Differentiates between emissions generated in the upstream production of final energy (supply) and emissions generated by direct combustion of final energy (demand).  Supply would refer to emissions generated in a power plant and Demand would refer to emissions generated by a gas water heater.

Additional Notes
----------------

- Negative emissions are shown in biomass supply nodes to represent sequestration. Positive emissions from ultimate consumption of biofuels are recorded separately in the location of their consumption.
- Negative emissions associated with power-to-gas represent air capture of CO2. Emissions associated with consumption of the synthetic methane are recorded separately in the location of their consumption.

Energy – ``energy.csv``
=======================

Energy consumed in the US economy.

Index Descriptions
------------------

Energy accounting
  Refers to the method of accounting for energy flows. Embodied represents all upstream energy flows associated with final energy consumption. Ex. Electricity would include flows in the coal primary supply node, coal powerplant supply node, electricity distribution grid supply node.  Final refers to final energy consumption by final energy type, sector, and subsector.

Census division
  Location of the flow or consumption of energy depending on the energy accounting type selected.

Levelized Costs – ``levelized_costs.csv``
=========================================

Levelized costs of energy.

Index Description

Export/domestic
  Costs associated with energy that is produced for consumption elsewhere (Export) or costs associated with energy that is consumed in the US.  To calculate scenario net costs, the Domestic filter should be applied, as these are costs borne by US consumers.

Annual Costs – Demand – ``annual_demand_costs.csv``
===================================================

Annual spending on demand-side equipment (water heaters, vehicles, etc.) and efficiency measures. These costs are not levelized and represent actual needed outlays in each year.

Annual Costs – Supply – ``annual_supply_costs.csv``
===================================================

Annual (not levelized) spending on fuels (i.e. gasoline), infrastructure (i.e. ‘distribution grid’), and supply technology costs including capital costs, fixed OM, and variable OM.  Represents supply-node spending independent of whether the final energy product is eventually exported.

Stock – Demand – ``demand_stock.csv``
=====================================

Breakdown of demand equipment stocks (water heaters, vehicles, etc.) by technology, vintage, and year.

Index Descriptions
------------------

Unit
  Unit of demand technology stock (water heater, vehicle, kBtu capacity, etc.)

Stock – Supply – ``supply_stock.csv``
=====================================

Breakdown of supply-side equipment stocks (wind power plants, hydrogen electrolysis facilities) by technology, vintage, and year. All supply equipment stocks are shown in units of model capacity, which is the model energy unit (quad) over the model time unit.

Service Demand – ``service_demand.csv``
=======================================

Projections of energy service demands (VMT, lumen-hours, etc.) by demand subsector

Demand Drivers – ``drivers.csv``
================================

Underlying drivers of demand stock and service demand projections (ex. Population)

Curtailment – ``curtailment.csv``
=================================

Quantity of electric generation that is curtailed
